..  -*- coding: utf-8 -*-

.. _contents:

Overview
========
.. html

    :Release: |version|
    :Date: |today|

================ =================== ==================  ==========  ===============
   **Date**      **Python Versions**   **Main Author**   **GitHub**      **pypl**
|date|                3.5+      `Carlo Nicolini`_  `Source`_   `Distribution`_
================ =================== ==================  ==========  ===============

**networkqit** is a Python package for working within the spectral entropy framework of complex networks.
However networkqit is of huge help also in developing, testing and using other Maximum Entropy network
models, such as the Erdos-Renyi, Configuration model and other complex variants of them.

The spectral entropies framework was firstly introduced in the paper:

 Spectral Entropies as Information-Theoretic Tools for Complex Network Comparison, Phys. Rev. X 6, 041062 (2016)

This toolbox is among the first implementations of the spectral entropy framework.
It entails both computation of the density matrices, as well as number of methods of model fitting methods.
If you are using **networkqit** please cite the following paper:

 Nicolini C., Vlasov V. Bifone A. "Thermodynamics of network model fitting with spectral entropies",
 Phys. Rev. E 98, 022322 (2018)

**networkqit** depends heavily on a number of math libraries, the typical scientific python stack.

Installing
----------

**networkqit** is only available for Python 3 users.
You can install the latest stable version of networkqit with pip:

    pip3 install networkqit

All the dependencies of **networkqit** are installed automatically.
Follow the :doc:`</install>` instructions for further information.

Documentation
----------------

You can browse the autogenerated **networkqit** documentation:

.. toctree::
  :maxdepth: 3

  install
  tutorial
  reference/infotheory/
  reference/graphtheory/
  reference/algorithms/
  license
  citing

.. automodule:: networkqit


Free software
-------------

**networkqit** is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the :doc:`3-clause BSD License </license>`.
I appreciate and welcome contributions to the code.
Join me on `Bitbucket <https://bitbucket.org/carlonicolini/networkqit>`_.
